add page for prestashop plugin (#36)
php-etl/documentation: content/connectivity/prestashop/_index.en.md

---
title: "Prestashop"
date: 2023-05-02T15:00:02+02:00
draft: false
type: "plugins"
description: "Read from and write to a PrestaShop site."
weight: 11
---

- [What is it?](#what-is-it)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Building an extractor](#building-an-extractor)
    - [Building a loader](#building-a-loader)
---

> Prestashop is an e-commerce platform.

> > Read more about its API's [resources](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/8/webservice/reference/#available-resources),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Read more about its API [resources](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/8/webservice/reference/#available-resources),
```

> [options](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/8/webservice/cheat-sheet/),
> and [how to open the API access.](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/1.7/webservice/tutorials/creating-access/)

## What is it?

> The Prestashop plugin aims at connecting the Prestashop API to your [pipeline](https://github.com/php-etl/pipeline).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Prestashop plugin aims at connecting a Prestashop instance through its API using a [pipeline](../core-concept/pipeline).
```

Currently the following resources are supported by the plugin: `categories`, `combinations`, `manufacturers`, `product_features`, `product_feature_values`, `product_options`, `product_option_values`, `products`, `shops`, `stock_availables`, `suppliers`, `tax_rule_groups`, `tax_rules`.

## Installation

```shell

> composer require php-etl/prestashop-plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
composer require "php-etl/prestashop-plugin:*"
```

```

## Usage

### Building an extractor
{{< tabs name="extractor" >}}
{{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
prestashop:
  client:
    url: 'https://prestashop.example.com'
    api_key: 'abc1234'
  extractor:
    type: 'products'
    method: 'all'
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="Description" codelang="yaml">}}
prestashop:
  client:
    url: the domain of your Prestashop website.
    api_key: the access key to the API.
  extractor:
    type: the resource to retrieve.
    method: currently the only method available is 'all'.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< tabs name="extractor" >}}
{{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
prestashop:
  client:
    url: 'https://prestashop.example.com' # the base URL of your Prestashop main website
    api_key: 'abc1234'                    # the access key to the API
  extractor:
    type: 'products'                      # the resource type you wish to retrieve
    method: 'all'                         # the retrieval method, currently it should always be 'all'.
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
```

#### Optional parameters:

{{< tabs name="extractor_options" >}}
{{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      columns:
        - 'id'
        - 'product_type'
        - 'price'
      filters:
        id: '[1,10]'
      sorters:
        id: "ASC"
      id_shop: 1
      id_group_shop: 1
      price:
        my_price:
          product_attribute: 25
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="Description" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      columns: returns only the fields specified.
               By default all the fields will be displayed.

      filters: filter the result based on a value, or a range of values.

      sorters: sorting fields and their direction.

      id_shop: id of the shop.
      id_group_shop: id of the shop group.
      price:
        my_price: display a custom field containing the price of the product.
          country|state|postcode|currency|group|quantity|product_attribute|decimals|use_tax|use_reduction|only_reduction|use_ecotax
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< tabs name="extractor_options" >}}
{{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      columns:           # Specify the fields you wish to retrieve
        - 'id'.          # by default all the fields will be retrieved, which can have
        - 'product_type' # an impact on the performance of your pipelines
        - 'price'
      filters:           # filter the result based on a value, or a range of values
        id: '[1,10]'
      sorters:           # sorting fields and their direction
        id: "ASC"
      id_shop: 1         # identifier of the shop containing the data you want to extract data from
      id_group_shop: 1
      price:             # list the price requests you want the API to calculate for you
        my_price:        # each element in this list is an individual price request you 
                         # will ask, that will be retrieved through an individual field
          quantity: 25
                  # the price request may contain any of the following parameters: 
                  # country, state, postcode, currency, group, quantity, product_attribute,
                  # decimals, use_tax, use_reduction, only_reduction, use_ecotax
                  # for more details, see https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/8/webservice/tutorials/advanced-use/specific-price/
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
```

##### languages:

{{< tabs name="extractor_options_languages" >}}
{{< tab name="As a list of IDs" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      languages: [ 1, 2, 3 ]
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="As a range" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      languages:
        from: 1
        to: 5
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="Description" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      languages: id, list of ids or range of ids of the languages to retrieve.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< tabs name="extractor_options_languages" >}}
{{< tab name="Example, with a list of identifiers" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      languages: [ 1, 2, 3 ] # list of ids of the languages to retrieve.
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="Example, with a range of identifiers" codelang="yaml">}}
  extractor:
# ...
    options:
      languages: # a range of ids of the languages to retrieve.
        from: 1
        to: 5
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
```

[Read the PrestaShop Documentation for more details.](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/8/webservice/tutorials/advanced-use/additional-list-parameters/)

> ### Building a loader
> {{< tabs name="loader" >}}
> {{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
> prestashop:
>   client:
>     url: 'https://prestashop.example.com'
>     api_key: 'abc1234'
>   loader:
>     type: 'products'
>     method: 'all'
> {{< /tab >}}
> 
> {{< tab name="Description" codelang="yaml">}}
> prestashop:
>   client:
>     url: the domain of your Prestashop website.
>     api_key: the access key to the API.
>   loader:
>     type: the resource to write to.
>     method: available methods are 'create', 'update', 'upsert'.
> {{< /tab >}}
> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Building a loader
{{< tabs name="loader" >}}
{{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
prestashop:
  client:
    url: 'https://prestashop.example.com'
    api_key: 'abc1234'
  loader:
    type: 'products'.  # the resource type to write to
    method: 'upsert'   # the method to use, available methods are 'create', 'update', 'upsert'.
                       # 'create' will only create products and fail if the product already exists
                       # 'update' will only update products and fail if the product does not exist
                       # 'upsert' will try to create the product if it does not exist or update if the product already exists
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
```

#### Optional parameters:

> {{< tabs name="loader_options" >}}
> {{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
>   loader:
> # ...
>     options: 
>       id_shop: 1
>       id_group_shop: 1
> {{< /tab >}}
> 
> {{< tab name="Description" codelang="yaml">}}
>   loader:
> # ...
>     options: 
>       id_shop: id of the shop.
>       id_group_shop: id of the shop group.
> {{< /tab >}}
> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< tabs name="loader_options" >}}
{{< tab name="Example" codelang="yaml">}}
  loader:
# ...
    options: 
      id_shop: 1.      # id of the shop
      id_group_shop: 1 # id of the shop group
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
```
